## openPOWERLINK QT MN GUI 

An QT based advanced application which implements an MN.
======================================

[TOC]

-------
### Features
 - Monitor the status of the nodes available in the network.
 - Send NMT commands to local and remote nodes.
 - Visualize the processimage data as variables and memory views.
 - Avoids the possibility of recompiling the application by using the xap.xml
 - Written with modular cross-platform C++ techniques.
 - Uses QT 5 libraries which creates stunning UIs and powerful native applications.
 - Uses CMake build system, an powerful cross-platform build system.

### Package dependencies to compile
#### openPOWERLINK stack v2.x
An open-source [POWERLINK][2] protocol stack.

* Get the openPOWERLINK stack from [github][7].


#### CMake
 * For building the library [CMake][5] is used. 
 * A CMake version 2.8.11 or higher is required!

	##### Out-of-Source Builds
	 * CMake supports out-of-source builds. Therefore, all generated files are 
	   located in a seperate build directory. This keeps your sources clean.

#### Compiler
 * Windows: Microsoft visual C++ 2010 or higher
 * Linux: G++ v4.6.3 or higher

#### Qt 5 framework
[Qt][3] is a cross-platform application and UI framework for developers using C++.
The Qt framework can be downloaded from [here][4]. Download the installer 
specific to your platform.

 * Windows: Download and install Qt 5.2.x for Windows
 * Linux: Download and install Qt 5.2.x for Linux

-------

### Build the GUI

#### Build the openPOWERLINK stack
Please refer to "Building openPOWERLINK" section from [openPOWERLINK doc site][6]
to build the stack libraries.

#### Build the openPOWERLINK QT API wrapper library

Please refer to `doc/plk_qt_api/Readme.md` to build the wrapper library. 

#### Compilation (any platform) using `cmake-gui`
 - Set the source path to apps/plk_qt_mn_gui
 - Set the build path to apps/plk_qt_mn_gui/build/<platform-specific>
 - Click configure
	- The configuration will fail for the first time. 
	- Set the openPOWERLINK stack root path to `CONFIG_openPOWERLINK_ROOT_DIR` of CMake configuration.
		- eg: `CONFIG_openPOWERLINK_ROOT_DIR` = D:\openPOWERLINK_V2\
	- If QT installation path is not found; set the QT install path `CONFIG_QT_INSTALL_PATH` of CMake configuration.
		- eg: `CONFIG_QT_INSTALL_PATH` = C:\Qt\Qt5.2.1\5.2.1\msvc2010
	- Click configure to activate the changes.
- Choose the type of stack libraries from `CONFIG_openPOWERLINK_BUILD_TYPE`
	- windows
		- Link to application
	- Linux
		- Link to application
		- Link to user interface
		- Link to kernel stack daemon
- Click configure to activate the changes.
- The CMake scripts will find the openPOWERLINK and wrapper libraries.
- Follow platform specific documentation below.

##### Linux
- Finally click generate button to generate the Makefiles. 
  (On Linux, CMake generates Makefiles by default).
- Go the choosen build path from the command prompt.

		` cd apps/plk_qt_mn_gui/build/<platform-specific> `
- Create the application using the command.

		`make clean && make install`
- The binaries with all dependencies will be available in 
  `bin/plk_qt_mn_gui/<platform>/<OPLK_STACK_CFG>`
- The user can generate the debug versions by changing the 
  `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE[TODO check]` to "Debug".
- The debug version of the applications are are built with "_d" at the end of the names.

##### Windows
- Finally click generate to generate the Visual C++ project files.
- Go the chosen build path.
- Open the `oplkmn_qt_gui.sln` with Visual C++
- Build the INSTALL project to generate the executable.
- The binaries with all dependencies will be available in 
  `bin/plk_qt_mn_gui/<platform>/<OPLK_STACK_CFG>`
- The name of the libraries depends on for which stack it is built for.
  Refer to `CONFIG_openPOWERLINK_BUILD_TYPE`
- You can switch between debug and release builds easily from the Visual C++ 
  solution configurations.
- The debug libraries are built with "_d" at the end of the library name.

-------

#### Runtime dependencies
The library is dependent on the openPOWERLINK 2.x and QT 5.2.x libraries. 
Here are the list of dependent libraries.

##### Windows
 - oplkmn-*(depends on choosen stack configuration choosen)* present in stack/libs/*
 - oplkqtwrap-*(depends on choosen stack configuration choosen)* present in stack/libs/*
 - wpcap.dll - PCAP library
 - Qt5Core.dll
 - Qt5Xml.dll
 - Qt5Widgets.dll
 - Qt5Gui.dll
 - icudt51.dll
 - icuin51.dll
 - icuuc51.dll
 - libEGL.dll
 - libGLESv2.dll
 - qwindows.dll - should be present in platforms/

##### Linux
 - libpcap - PCAP library (only for selected configurations of openPOWERLINK stack)
 - Qt5Core.so
 - Qt5Xml.so
 - Qt5Widgets.so
 - Qt5Gui.so
 - icudt51.so
 - icuin51.so
 - icuuc51.so


-------

#### How to run

##### What all you need run the application?
###### Hardware
 - An openPOWERLINK supported network interface cards
 - An openPOWERLINK supported Controlled Node
###### Software
 - CDC and Xap.xml generated by openCONFIGURATOR[1] 

##### Execute
 - Go to `bin/plk_qt_mn_gui/<platform>/<OPLK_STACK_CFG>`
 - Run the plk_qt_mn_gui (use sudo in Linux)
 - Choose the CDC and Xap.xml files by clicking on the Choose CDC menu
 - Select the network interface by clicking on the Select network interface menu
 - Click on the Run menu to start the openPOWERLINK stack.


-------
[1]: http://sourceforge.net/projects/openconf/
[2]: http://sourceforge.net/projects/openpowerlink/
[3]: http://qt-project.org
[4]: http://download.qt-project.org/official_releases/qt/5.2
[5]: http://www.cmake.org
[6]: http://openpowerlink.sourceforge.net
[7]: https://github.com/Ramakrishnan45/openPOWERLINK_v2.0_QT